Objects in Javascript

There are 3 ways to create an Object in Javascript
1.By Object literal.
2.By creating instance of Object directly (using new keyword).
3.By using an Object constructor. (using new keyword).

Objects in Javascript is the most important data type. These Objects are quite different from Javascript's primitive data types (Number, String, Boolean, null, undefined and symbol) in the
sense that while these primitive data-types all store a single value each.
An object, is a reference data type. Variables that are assigned a reference value are given a reference or a pointer to that value. That reference or pointer points to the location in
memory where the object is stored. The variables don’t actually store the value.
objects in JavaScript may be defined as an unordered collection of related data, of primitive or reference types, in the form of “key: value” pairs. These keys can be variables or functions
and are called properties and methods, respectively, in the context of an object.
An object can be created with figure brackets {…} with an optional list of properties. A property is a “key: value” pair, where a key is a string (also called a “property name”), and value
can be anything. 


Create JavaScript Object with Object Literal
One of easiest way to create a javascript object is object literal, simply define the property and values inside curly braces as shown below

SYNTAX : 

let object_name = {
    key_name : value,
    ...
}

Example of Javascript Object with Object literal : 

let school = {
    name : "Vivekananda School",
    location : "Delhi",
    established : "1971"
}

In the above example “name”, “location”, “established” are all “keys” and “Vivekananda School”, “Delhi” and 1971 are values of these keys respectively. Each of these keys is referred to as
properties of the object. 

Using the JavaScript Keyword new
The following example also creates a new JavaScript object with four properties:

Example creating instance of Object directly (using new keyword).

var person = new Object();
person.firstName = “John”;
person.lastName = “Doe”;
person.age = 50;
person.eyeColor = “blue”;

Create JavaScript Object with Constructor
Constructor is nothing but a function and with help of new keyword, constructor function allows to create multiple objects of same flavor as shown below

Example of creating Object with constructor.

function Vehicle(name, maker) {
   this.name = name;
   this.maker = maker;
}

let car1 = new Vehicle(’Fiesta’, 'Ford’);
let car2 = new Vehicle(’Santa Fe’, 'Hyundai’)
console.log(car1.name);    //Output: Fiesta
console.log(car2.name);    //Output: Santa Fe

